“Don’t talk to me like that!”
“I’ll talk to you how I want,” said Harry, his temper rising so fast he
snatched his wand back from his bedside table. “If you’ve got a problem
sharing a dormitory with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can be moved,
stop your mummy worrying —”
“Leave my mother out of this, Potter!”
“What’s going on?”
Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes traveled from Harry, who
was kneeling on his bed with his wand pointing at Seamus, to Seamus, who
was standing there with his fists raised.
“He’s having a go at my mother!” Seamus yelled.
“What?” said Ron. “Harry wouldn’t do that — we met your mother, we
liked her . . .”
“That’s before she started believing every word the stinking Daily Prophet
writes about me!” said Harry at the top of his voice.
“Oh,” said Ron, comprehension dawning across his freckled face. “Oh . . .
right.”
“You know what?” said Seamus heatedly, casting Harry a venomous look.
“He’s right, I don’t want to share a dormitory with him anymore, he’s a
madman.”
“That’s out of order, Seamus,” said Ron, whose ears were starting to glow
red, always a danger sign.
“Out of order, am I?” shouted Seamus, who in contrast with Ron was
turning paler. “You believe all the rubbish he’s come out with about You-
Know-Who, do you, you reckon he’s telling the truth?”
“Yeah, I do!” said Ron angrily.
“Then you’re mad too,” said Seamus in disgust.
“Yeah? Well unfortunately for you, pal, I’m also a prefect!” said Ron,
jabbing himself in the chest with a finger. “So unless you want detention,
watch your mouth!”
Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention would be a
reasonable price to pay to say what was going through his mind; but with a
noise of contempt he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed, and pulled the
hangings shut with such violence that they were ripped from the bed and fell
in a dusty pile to the floor. Ron glared at Seamus, then looked at Dean and
Neville.
“Anyone else’s parents got a problem with Harry?” he said aggressively.
“My parents are Muggles, mate,” said Dean, shrugging. “They don’t know
nothing about no deaths at Hogwarts, because I’m not stupid enough to tell
them.”
“You don’t know my mother, she’ll weasel anything out of anyone!”
Seamus snapped at him. “Anyway, your parents don’t get the Daily Prophet,
they don’t know our headmaster’s been sacked from the Wizengamot and the
International Confederation of Wizards because he’s losing his marbles —”
“My gran says that’s rubbish,” piped up Neville. “She says it’s the Daily
Prophet that’s going downhill, not Dumbledore. She’s canceled our
subscription. We believe Harry,” he said simply. He climbed into bed and
pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly over them at Seamus. “My
gran’s always said You-Know-Who would come back one day. She says if
Dumbledore says he’s back, he’s back.”
Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Neville. Nobody else said anything.
Seamus got out his wand, repaired the bed hangings, and vanished behind
them. Dean got into bed, rolled over, and fell silent. Neville, who appeared to
have nothing more to say either, was gazing fondly at his moonlit cactus.
Harry lay back on his pillows while Ron bustled around the next bed,
putting his things away. He felt shaken by the argument with Seamus, whom
he had always liked very much. How many more people were going to
suggest that he was lying or unhinged?
Had Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as first the Wizengamot,
then the International Confederation of Wizards had thrown him from their
ranks? Was it anger at Harry, perhaps, that had stopped Dumbledore getting in
touch with him for months? The two of them were in this together, after all;
Dumbledore had believed Harry, announced his version of events to the
whole school and then to the wider Wizarding community. Anyone who
thought Harry was a liar had to think that Dumbledore was too or else that
Dumbledore had been hoodwinked. . . .
They’ll know we’re right in the end, thought Harry miserably, as Ron got
into bed and extinguished the last candle in the dormitory. But he wondered
how many attacks like Seamus’s he would have to endure before that time
came.
S
CHAPTER TWELVE
PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
eamus dressed at top speed next morning and left the dormitory before
Harry had even put on his socks.
“Does he think he’ll turn into a nutter if he stays in a room with me too
long?” asked Harry loudly, as the hem of Seamus’s robes whipped out of
sight.
“Don’t worry about it, Harry,” Dean muttered, hoisting his schoolbag onto
his shoulder. “He’s just . . .” But apparently he was unable to say exactly what
Seamus was, and after a slightly awkward pause followed him out of the
room.
Neville and Ron both gave Harry it’s-his-problem-not-yours looks, but
Harry was not much consoled. How much more of this was he going to have
to take?
“What’s the matter?” asked Hermione five minutes later, catching up with
Harry and Ron halfway across the common room as they all headed toward
breakfast. “You look absolutely — oh for heaven’s sake.”
She was staring at the common room notice board, where a large new sign
had been put up.
GALLONS OF GALLEONS!
Pocket money failing to keep pace with your outgoings?
Like to earn a little extra gold?
Contact Fred and George Weasley, Gryffindor common room, for simple,
part-time, virtually painless jobs
(WE REGRET THAT ALL WORK IS UNDERTAKEN AT APPLICANT’S OWN RISK)
“They are the limit,” said Hermione grimly, taking down the sign, which
Fred and George had pinned up over a poster giving the date of the first
Hogsmeade weekend in October. “We’ll have to talk to them, Ron.”
Ron looked positively alarmed.
“Why?”
“Because we’re prefects!” said Hermione, as they climbed out through the
portrait hole. “It’s up to us to stop this kind of thing!”
Ron said nothing; Harry could tell from his glum expression that the
prospect of stopping Fred and George doing exactly what they liked was not
one that he found inviting.
“Anyway, what’s up, Harry?” Hermione continued, as they walked down a
flight of stairs lined with portraits of old witches and wizards, all of whom
ignored them, being engrossed in their own conversation. “You look really
angry about something.”
“Seamus reckons Harry’s lying about You-Know-Who,” said Ron
succinctly, when Harry did not respond.
Hermione, whom Harry had expected to react angrily on his behalf, sighed.
“Yes, Lavender thinks so too,” she said gloomily.
“Been having a nice little chat with her about whether or not I’m a lying,
attention-seeking prat, have you?” Harry said loudly.
“No,” said Hermione calmly, “I told her to keep her big fat mouth shut
about you, actually. And it would be quite nice if you stopped jumping down
Ron’s and my throats, Harry, because if you haven’t noticed, we’re on your
side.”
There was a short pause.
“Sorry,” said Harry in a low voice.
“That’s quite all right,” said Hermione with dignity. Then she shook her
head. “Don’t you remember what Dumbledore said at the end-of-term feast
last year?”
Harry and Ron both looked at her blankly, and Hermione sighed again.
“About You-Know-Who. He said, ‘His gift for spreading discord and
enmity is very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally strong bond
of friendship and trust —’”
“How do you remember stuff like that?” asked Ron, looking at her in
admiration.
“I listen, Ron,” said Hermione with a touch of asperity.
“So do I, but I still couldn’t tell you exactly what —”
“The point,” Hermione pressed on loudly, “is that this sort of thing is
exactly what Dumbledore was talking about. You-Know-Who’s only been
back two months, and we’ve started fighting among ourselves. And the
Sorting Hat’s warning was the same — stand together, be united —”
“And Harry said it last night,” retorted Ron, “if that means we’re supposed
to get matey with the Slytherins, fat chance.”
“Well, I think it’s a pity we’re not trying for a bit of inter-House unity,” said
Hermione crossly.
They had reached the foot of the marble staircase. A line of fourth-year
Ravenclaws was crossing the entrance hall; they caught sight of Harry and
hurried to form a tighter group, as though frightened he might attack
stragglers.
“Yeah, we really ought to be trying to make friends with people like that,”
said Harry sarcastically.
They followed the Ravenclaws into the Great Hall, looking instinctively at
the staff table as they entered. Professor Grubbly-Plank was chatting to
Professor Sinistra, the Astronomy teacher, and Hagrid was once again
conspicuous only by his absence. The enchanted ceiling above them echoed
Harry’s mood; it was a miserable rain-cloud gray.
“Dumbledore didn’t even mention how long that Grubbly-Plank woman’s
staying,” he said, as they made their way across to the Gryffindor table.
“Maybe . . .” said Hermione thoughtfully.
“What?” said both Harry and Ron together.
“Well . . . maybe he didn’t want to draw attention to Hagrid not being
here.”
“What d’you mean, draw attention to it?” said Ron, half laughing. “How
could we not notice?”
Before Hermione could answer, a tall black girl with long, braided hair had
marched up to Harry.
“Hi, Angelina.”
“Hi,” she said briskly, “good summer?” And without waiting for an answer,
“Listen, I’ve been made Gryffindor Quidditch Captain.”
“Nice one,” said Harry, grinning at her; he suspected Angelina’s pep talks
might not be as long-winded as Oliver Wood’s had been, which could only be
an improvement.
“Yeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Oliver’s left. Tryouts are on
Friday at five o’clock and I want the whole team there, all right? Then we can
see how the new person’ll fit in.”
“Okay,” said Harry, and she smiled at him and departed.
“I’d forgotten Wood had left,” said Hermione vaguely, sitting down beside
Ron and pulling a plate of toast toward her. “I suppose that will make quite a
difference to the team?”
“I s’pose,” said Harry, taking the bench opposite. “He was a good
Keeper . . .”
“Still, it won’t hurt to have some new blood, will it?” said Ron.
With a whoosh and a clatter, hundreds of owls came soaring in through the
upper windows. They descended all over the Hall, bringing letters and
packages to their owners and showering the breakfasters with droplets of
water; it was clearly raining hard outside. Hedwig was nowhere to be seen,
but Harry was hardly surprised; his only correspondent was Sirius, and he
doubted Sirius would have anything new to tell him after only twenty-four
hours apart. Hermione, however, had to move her orange juice aside quickly
to make way for a large damp barn owl bearing a sodden Daily Prophet in its
beak.
“What are you still getting that for?” said Harry irritably, thinking of
Seamus, as Hermione placed a Knut in the leather pouch on the owl’s leg and
it took off again. “I’m not bothering . . . load of rubbish.”
“It’s best to know what the enemy are saying,” said Hermione darkly, and
she unfurled the newspaper and disappeared behind it, not emerging until
Harry and Ron had finished eating.
“Nothing,” she said simply, rolling up the newspaper and laying it down by
her plate. “Nothing about you or Dumbledore or anything.”
Professor McGonagall was now moving along the table handing out
